.. _200603_post_194:

日本外相说了些什么？
=======================================

`ruanyifeng.com <http://www.ruanyifeng.com/blog/2006/03/post_194.html>`__

中新网3月15日电
中国外交部发言人秦刚今天针对日本外相麻生太郎有关文章的涉华言论指出，日本外交当局最高负责人对中国的政治体制说三道四，是极不恰当的。日本在历史上的错误并不能成为对别国指手画脚的资本。

日本外相麻生太郎日前在《华尔街日报》发表题为《日本等待一个民主的中国》的署名文章，称\ **“中国曾实行大跃进和文化大革命等错误政策，至今还未在理想和现实中找到平衡。中国早晚会成为民主国家。中国应从日本过去所犯错误中吸取教训，控制国内民族主义情绪，避免走向’帝国化’”**\ 。

秦刚就此指出，建设有中国特色的社会主义，是中国人民自己的选择，符合中国国情。中国的发展不仅造福中国人民，也为亚洲和世界的和平、稳定与发展做出了重要的贡献。

秦刚说，中国坚持走和平发展道路，无论现在还是将来都不会谋求霸权。这是由中国的传统文化、发展需要和国家利益决定的。对日本来说，当前重要的是妥善处理自己的历史认识问题，真正取得亚洲邻国的信任。

秦刚强调，中国一贯主张国与国之间应相互尊重、平等相待，反对以教师爷自居。由于众所周知的原因，日本在历史上的错误并不能成为对别国指手画脚的资本。


=========================

**Japan Awaits a Democratic China**

By TARO ASO

March 13, 2006; Page A18

TOKYO — I am positive on China. Already the biggest trading partner in
our history if combined with Hong Kong, China has powered our recent
economic recovery. Going forward, our codependence will only become more
pronounced. I welcome China’s return to center stage in East Asia — as
long as China evolves into a liberal democracy. And I believe it will.

Democracy in Asia is spreading. Not so long ago, a Japanese prime
minister would have to fly south overnight to Canberra to meet our
nearest democratic neighbor. Now, he can fly west for only two hours to
Seoul, capital of one of the world’s most vibrant democracies.

China’s turn is imminent, and I am positive on the prospects for this
evolution. Citizens of Japan, South Korea and Indonesia can all attest
that prolonged economic development creates a stable middle class, which
in turn provides a springboard for greater political representation. The
question is no longer “whether,” but “at what speed” China will
metamorphose into a fully democratic nation. I can assure our friends in
China that Japan is committed to China’s success to that end.

Imagine: In 20 years, China’s influence in Japan will be enormous.
Chinese holiday makers, from students to the retired, will be the
largest consumers of Japanese tourism, filling favorite tourist spots
like Kyoto. Tokyo’s taxi drivers will speak Chinese, not English. China
will be one of the largest investors in Japan’s economy. A considerable
proportion of the shares traded in Tokyo will rest in Chinese hands.
Today, Japanese companies go to New York for investor marketing trips —
soon, they will fly to Shanghai first.

In truth, there is little new or surprising about these scenarios,
considering Asia’s historical context. China is not emerging afresh as a
world power, as many claim; it is, in fact, reclaiming its historical
prominence. My hope is that China recognizes that there is no longer a
place for an empire. Rather, the guiding principles in today’s world are
global interdependence and the international harmony that can engender.

China’s history is one of extremes. In 1842, the pendulum swung to one
extreme when the Qing dynasty was defeated in the Opium War and fell
under the coercive power of the West. In 1949, the mainland swung to
another extreme, as Mao Zedong ushered in the Great Leap Forward and the
Cultural Revolution — both now seen as misguided policies. Until
recently, the Chinese did not have the luxury of striking a balance
between vision and reality, between who they are and who they wish to
be.

Crucially, China can learn from Japan’s missteps — we have “been there,
done that.” Japan has experienced extreme nationalism twice in the last
century. A telling incident occurred in 1964, shortly before the opening
of the Tokyo Olympic Games, when a Japanese teenager stabbed Edwin O.
Reischauer, then American ambassador to Japan. At the time, Japanese
emotions still ran high at the thought of U.S. power and influence.
Beijing’s leaders can learn from such Japanese experiences to better
manage their own rising nationalism. Environmental degradation, which
suffocated Japan in the 1960s and 1970s, is another area where China can
learn from Japan’s mistakes, just as we hope China is also inspired by
our successes.

In terms of military presence, Japan is Asia’s natural stabilizer. The
U.S. and Japan have the world’s longest-standing security partnership.
It is transparent and a relationship between two democracies. Acting
alone, the Japanese or the Americans might raise a few eyebrows; acting
together, there is no room for misunderstanding. China and every other
Asian nation can continue to count on the built-in stabilizer provided
jointly by Japan and America, a common good that is readily available to
Beijing. Hence my request that Beijing fully disclose its defense
spending, which has remained opaque yet — as Beijing admits — has more
than trebled over the last 10 years.

A final reflection on Japan’s post-war record: I can say with confidence
that, with a few exceptions, Japan has conducted itself openly and
treated neighboring nations as peers. As a self-proclaimed “techie,” I
have called the attitude that Japan has shown toward its neighboring
nations one of “P2P,” or peer-to-peer relations.

I would like these thoughts to resonate widely, especially with the
citizens of China. For this reason, I have asked my colleagues at the
Japanese Foreign Ministry to create a multi-year student-exchange
program that is absolutely positive, like my vision of China’s future.

I would very much like Japan’s youth to look warmly at China. The growth
of China must hinder no one’s interests. Our new program will facilitate
the exchange of thousands of Japanese and Chinese high school students,
enabling these young ambassadors to stay in ordinary homes in each
other’s nations and planting the seeds of mutual understanding. If our
program is successful, in 20 years’ time Japanese men and women with
first-hand knowledge of China will view the Chinese among their closest
friends. And many more Chinese will feel the same about Japan.

Mr. Aso is Japan’s foreign minister.

| URL for this article:
|  http://online.wsj.com/article/SB114221963922796329.html

`ruanyifeng.com <http://www.ruanyifeng.com/blog/2006/03/post_194.html>`__

Evernote

**

Highlight

Remove Highlight

.. note::
    原文地址: http://www.ruanyifeng.com/blog/2006/03/post_194.html 
    作者: 阮一峰 

    编辑: 木书架 http://www.me115.com