.. _200606_post_252:

引言摘录之三
===============================

`ruanyifeng.com <http://www.ruanyifeng.com/blog/2006/06/post_252.html>`__

28.

| **祈祷，名词，意为要求宇宙的法则，为了某一个肯定不值得的请愿者，而失效。**
|  －－ 安布罗斯·皮尔斯，《魔鬼辞典》的作者

| “Pray, n:. To ask that the laws of the universe be annulled in behalf
of a single petitioner confessedly unworthy.”
|  - Ambrose Bierce

29.

| **好了，我的好先生，现在我没有时间树敌了。**
|  －－
伏尔泰，18世纪法国思想家。这是他临死前躺在床上，面对要求他与撒旦断绝关系的牧师，做出的回答。

| “Now, now my good man, this is no time for making enemies.”
|  - Voltaire, on his deathbed in response to a priest asking that he
renounce Satan.

30.

| **世界上有些东西已知，有些东西未知，它们之间就是大门乐队。**
|  －－ 吉姆·莫里森（1943-1971），大门乐队主唱

“There are things known and there are things unknown and in between are
the Doors.” -Jim Morrison

31.

| **人们害怕自己，害怕真正的自我，尤其害怕他们的感情。人们谈论爱是多么伟大。那是胡说！爱让人受伤。感情让人烦恼。人们被教导痛苦是邪恶和危险的。但是他们害怕痛苦的话，他们怎么去爱呢？痛苦的意义是它将我们唤醒。人们企图掩饰他们的痛苦。这是不对的。痛苦是我们必须带在身上的一件东西，好像收音机一样。在痛苦中，你感受到自己的力量。关键是你怎么处理痛苦，这最重要。痛苦是一种感觉。你的感觉是你的一部分。它是你的自我。如果你害怕面对痛苦，隐藏痛苦，那么你就听任社会摧毁你的自我了。为了你自己，你应该站起来，勇敢地感受痛苦。**
|  －－ 吉姆·莫里森，同上

People are afraid of themselves, of their own reality; their feelings
most of all. People talk about how great love is, but that’s bullshit.
Love hurts. Feelings are disturbing. People are taught that pain is evil
and dangerous. How can they deal with love if they’re afraid to feel?
Pain is meant to wake us up. People try to hide their pain. But they’re
wrong. Pain is something to carry, like a radio. You feel your strength
in the experience of pain. It’s all in how you carry it. That’s what
matters. Pain is a feeling. Your feelings are a part of you. Your own
reality. If you feel ashamed of them, and hide them, you’re letting
society destroy your reality. You should stand up for your right to feel
your pain. -Jim Morrison

32.

| **不快乐是一片需要英雄的大陆。**
|  －－ 歌德，《浮士德》

Unhappy is the land that needs a hero. -Goethe, Faust

33.

| **我多么希望，多么希望你在这里。
 我们是两个迷失的灵魂，在鱼缸里游着，年复一年。**
|  — 平克·弗洛伊德，《希望你在这里》，著名摇滚乐队

| How I wish, how I wish you were here.
|  We’re just two lost souls swimming in a fish bowl year after year.
|  -Pink Floyd, Wish You Were Here

34.

| **许多人说他们在思考，实际上他们只是在重新安排偏见。**
|  －－ 威廉·詹姆斯（1842-1910），美国心理学家和哲学家

A great many people think they are thinking when they are merely
rearranging their prejudices. -William James

35.

| **偏执是自觉的更高境界。**
|  －－
查尔斯·曼森，杀人犯，1969年杀死著名导演波兰斯基的妻子及其他6个人，1970年被判处死刑，时年36岁

Paranoia is just a higher form of awareness. -Charles Manson

37.

| **如果你独自一人，你就彻底属于你自己。如果你和其他人在一起，你只有一半属于自己，甚至不到一半。**
|  －－达芬奇

If you are alone you belong entirely to yourself. If you are accompanied
by even another companion you belong only half to yourself, or even
less. -Leonardo Da Vinci

38.

| **好人做好事，坏人做坏事，如果要让好人做坏事，你就需要信仰。**
|  －－ 史蒂文·温伯格，美国物理学家，1979年诺贝尔奖得主

Good people will do good things. Evil people will do evil things. But
for good people to do evil things, that takes religion. -Steven Weinberg

39.

| **我不知道别人怎么看我，但是对我自己来说，我似乎只是一个在海边玩耍的孩子，因为找到一块光滑的鹅卵石或一个漂亮的贝壳，而开心不已。真理的大洋躺在我面前，我对它一无所知。**
|  －－ 牛顿

I do not know what I may appear to the world, but to myself I seem to
have been only like a boy playing on the seashore, diverting myself in
now and then finding a smoother pebble or a prettier shell than
ordinary, whilst the great ocean of truth lay all undiscovered before
me.—Sir Isaac Newton

40.

| **到目前为止，我对道德的认识仅仅是，做完之后，让你感觉良好的事，就是道德的；做完之后，让你感觉糟糕的事，那就是不道德的。**
|  －－ 海明威

| So far, about morals, I know only that what is moral is what you feel
good after
|  and what is immoral is what you feel bad after.-Ernest Hemingway

41.

| **他并不真的关心谁赢得战争。不管哪一方赢，生活都将是艰苦的。虽然如果德国人赢了，生活会更艰苦一些。不管哪一种情况，他与生活的战斗还将持续下去。**
|  －－ 马尔科姆·洛利（1909-1957），《在火山下》，英国作家。

| He didn’t really care who won the war. Either way, life would be hard.
Though it would be a little harder if Germany won.
|  And in either case, one’s personal battles would continue. -Malcolm
Lowry, Under the Volcano

（阮一峰译，2006年6月21日）

`ruanyifeng.com <http://www.ruanyifeng.com/blog/2006/06/post_252.html>`__

Evernote

**

Highlight

Remove Highlight

.. note::
    原文地址: http://www.ruanyifeng.com/blog/2006/06/post_252.html 
    作者: 阮一峰 

    编辑: 木书架 http://www.me115.com