.. _200402_post_34:

一次移植八个器官
===================================

`ruanyifeng.com <http://www.ruanyifeng.com/blog/2004/02/post_34.html>`__

今天早上，听到新闻里说德国对一名病人同时进行了８个器官的移植手术，病人状况一切良好，正在等待出院。

8个器官，太了不起了！不知道是怎么解决排斥反应的，莫非都是来自一个捐献者……医学水平真是越来越高了，现在除了大脑以外，人体所有部分都能移植了。会不会有一天，大脑也可以移植？


================================

下面是新华社的报道。

**德成功完成8个器官同时移植手术**

（2004-02-06 11:09:06） 来源：新华网

新华网柏林２月５日电（记者郑汉根）德国柏林夏里特医院５日宣布，该医院对一名病人同时进行了８个器官的移植手术，并获得成功。

| 接受手术的是来自下萨克森州一名３６岁的妇女。两个月前，在一次长达１２个小时的手术中，夏里特医院为她同时移植了肝、胰腺、胃、十二指
| 
肠、小肠、大肠、右肾等８个器官。医院称，目前所有被移植器官运转正常，该妇女不久也将康复出院。

１９８８年以来，这名妇女身体多个器官都发生疾病，令她苦不堪言。２００２年４月以后，她只能靠静脉注射维持生命，前后接受过２０多次不同手术。

| 夏里特医院说，这是欧洲范围内第一例获得成功的对８个器官同时进行移植的手术。（完）
| 夏里特医院说，这是欧洲范围内第一例获得成功的对８个器官同时进行移植的手术。（完）
|  =================================

下面是路透社的报道：

**German Doctors Transplant 8 Vital Organs at Once**

| Fri 6 February, 2004 17:23 
|  By Brian Swint

BERLIN (Reuters) - German doctors have completed Europe’s first
simultaneous transplant of eight vital organs but only announced the
results on Friday after waiting to make sure it succeeded.

Andreas Paschner, a doctor at Berlin’s Charite hospital, said the daring
operation in late November had been attempted no more than twice before,
in the United States.

A secretary identified only as Stefanie H., 36, got a new liver,
pancreas, stomach, duodenum, small intestine, partial large intestine,
kidney and adrenal gland in surgery that lasted 12 hours.

“The patient is recovering well,” said Paschner, one of a team of four
doctors to perform the operation.

“The patient is on a more or less normal diet,” he said. “Her intestinal
disorder is gone, but she will experience problems all transplant
patients typically have.”

All of the transplanted organs are now fully functional, and the woman
may be able to return to work in about six months.

She suffered for more than 20 years from Crohn’s disease, a severe
variant of inflammatory bowel disease in which the body’s immune system
causes intestines to swell along the digestive tract. She had been in
hospital since November 2001.

The operation became necessary after her liver and pancreas failed due
to long term intravenous feeding while she was waiting for a small
intestine transplant. She fell into a coma.

Doctors found her entire stomach region had hardened from abscesses,
bleeding and the build-up of scar tissue, a condition doctors call a
“frozen abdomen,” from more than 20 operations. “This operation was last
possible treatment for a patient who suffered from an intestinal
disorder with severe and life-threatening complications,” Paschner said.

（完）

.. note::
    原文地址: http://www.ruanyifeng.com/blog/2004/02/post_34.html 
    作者: 阮一峰 

    编辑: 木书架 http://www.me115.com