.. _200512_post_162:

关于幸福，你知道多少（上）
=============================================

`ruanyifeng.com <http://www.ruanyifeng.com/blog/2005/12/post_162.html>`__

我手边有一本英语阅读练习，其中选了一篇《读者文摘》上的文章，内容关于什么是幸福。

我读完后觉得很好，很受益，就拿出来和大家一起分享。

原文是英语，十分简单，一看就懂，我也不翻译了。我觉得有意思的句子，都标成了黑体。

首先，文章说哥伦比亚大学的心理学教授Jonathan
Freedman做了一个关于幸福的问卷调查，下面是一些调查结果。

1。爱情和性

People see love as the key to happiness. **Those who love and are loved
in return are happier than others. Great prosperity, a high-status job,
health, personal attractiveness, marriage, even sex — none of these make
up for a lack of love. “You can be happy without a good sex life, and
you can have a good sex life and be unhappy.**\ ” Freedman point out,
though sex is an important element in happiness for most people.

很同意这个结论，我觉得有回应的爱情是幸福的充分条件，甚至是第一位的。没有爱情，怎么都不可能是幸福的。

2。婚姻

**Being married makes happiness easier**, even in an age of widespread
divorce. “Despite changing attitudes toward marriage and the incredible
high divorce rate,” says Freedman, “\ **a vast majority of our
population seem to find happiness in marriage and to be unhappy if they
remain single too long.**\ ”

呵呵，最后一句就是针对我说的，我也是单身时间太长了。不过，我真的相信婚姻使幸福变得更容易。婚姻是幸福的制度保证，也许可以这样说……

3。单身

**Single men and women are generally less happy than married ones.
Still, the questionnaire replies revealed sharp differences between the
sexes.**\ After age 40, the “happiness gap” between single and married
men seems to disappear, while it increases between single and married
women. For many reasons, life seems particularly hard for single women
as they age.

是吗？40岁以后，结不结婚男人的感觉都一样？有点奇怪啊……

4。离婚

**Those who are divorced are much less happy than those who maintain a
central love relationship.**\ So it comes as no surprise that most who
get divorced eventually remarry. And those who do get married again, the
survey indicates, are much better off than those who do not.

**Second marriages have at least as much potential for happiness as
first ones. “One failure, one poor choice, one relationship that does
not work out, may cause considerable unhappiness, but it does not seem
to reduce one’s chance for finding happiness in marriage or in
general.”** In fact, survey results indicate that for men the second
marriage is happier than the first. Unfortunately, women, on average,
are slightly less happy in a second marriage.

第二次婚姻能否幸福，和第一次婚姻是无关的，我想很多人都没有意识到这一点吧。至于调查中发现的男女之别，似乎感觉上就是这样。

`ruanyifeng.com <http://www.ruanyifeng.com/blog/2005/12/post_162.html>`__

Evernote

**

Highlight

Remove Highlight

.. note::
    原文地址: http://www.ruanyifeng.com/blog/2005/12/post_162.html 
    作者: 阮一峰 

    编辑: 木书架 http://www.me115.com