.. _200504_post_116:

班禅喇嘛最喜欢的玩具
=======================================

`ruanyifeng.com <http://www.ruanyifeng.com/blog/2005/04/post_116.html>`__

上周末外出旅行，我在火车站买了一份Shanghai Daily。

结果在火车上，就看到了下面的消息，班禅喇嘛最喜欢的玩具……居然是”神州5号”飞船模型！

我第一反应是笑得肚子都疼了，这样的宣传手段未免太笨拙了吧。

可是，接下来的感觉越来越坏。生活在这样的时代，我怎么办啊？……

此外，西藏的未来也未免太让人担忧了吧。


=====================================

| **Young Panchen Lama sees “great historic mission” on his shoulders**
|  www.chinaview.cn 2005-04-13 18:28:30 

| 
|  BEIJING, April 13 (Xinhuanet) — **The favorite toy of the 15-year-old
11th Panchen Lama, one of Tibet’s top religious leaders, was a model of
“Shenzhou-5”, China’s first manned spacecraft sent into orbit in October
2003.**

He was immediately attracted by the model when he first saw it at the
national museum of science and technology in Beijing, and showed a
strong interest in how the spaceship was designed and how it worked.

“I am happy about the latest scientific achievements of our country,”
said the young Panchen Lama, who was confirmed as the reincarnation of
the previous Panchen and enthroned 10 years ago with a religious name
Bainqen Erdini Qoigyijabu.

In an exclusive interview with China Central Television (CCTV) broadcast
nationwide on Monday, the Panchen Lama, who called himself “an earnest
viewer of prime time news programs of CCTV”, told the audience of his
life over the past decade.

　　”I AM NOT A KID, NOR AN ADULT, BUT A YOUTH”

In Tibetan Buddhism, the honorary title of Panchen Lama was conferred on
an erudite person believed to be the reincarnation of “Amitabha,” the
highest-ranking Buddha. So the successive Panchen Lamas have enjoyed
extremely high prestige among the religious believers in Tibet.

Bainqen Erdini Qoigyijabu was confirmed and approved by the State
Council, China’s cabinet, as the reincarnation of the 10th Panchen Lama
on Nov. 29, 1995 after a ceremony of drawing lots from a sacred gold
urn, conducted in strict compliance with religious rituals and
historical conventions.

He ascended the holy throne as the 11th Panchen Lama at a formal solemn
ceremony held at the Zhaxi Lhunbo Lamasery, the seat of successive
Panchen Lamas, on Dec. 8, 1995.

He has been leading a routine daily life since he was five years old:
getting up at 6:30 a.m., prostrating to kowtow three times to the statue
of Sakyamuni in his bedroom, and then spending the whole day studying
various subjects.

The study of Buddhist sutras and religious rituals constitutes a main
part of the young Panchen Lama’s daily life, and it will take him at
least 22 years to complete the study of all sutra lessons.

But his greatest hobby is to practice calligraphy, on which he spent
nearly one hour each day. He now has an excellent handwriting in both
Tibetan and Chinese languages, as well as in Sanskrit, the ancient Indic
language now most of ten found in the classical religious and literary
works.

He also takes much interest in modern appliances such as a notebook
computer, which he often uses to help himself do homework assigned by
his tutors.

Despite the marked progress he has made in his learning over the past
decade, the young Panchen Lama said that he believes there is no end for
his study throughout his life.

While asked to comment on himself at the present stage, the young
religious leader said: “I am not a kid, nor an adult, but a youth.”

Though being a living buddha, the 11th Panchen Lama also loves all
members of his secular family. “I shall never forget it was my parents
who brought me to this world, and I am also much concerned about my
elderly brother, who often consulted me on some difficulties he met in
his study,” he said.

“I CAN FEEL THE GREAT HISTORIC MISSION ON MY SHOULDERS”

Still having a fresh memory of the moment when he was confirmed as the
10th Panchen Lama’s reincarnation, Bainqen Erdini Qoigyijabu said: “I
can feel the great historic mission on my shoulders.”

“I shall work hard for the unification of the motherland, for ethnic
unity, for the well-being of the people, and for the healthy development
of Tibetan Buddhism along a path compatible with the socialist society,”
he said. “This is the mission I must fulfill.”

“The most fundamental point is that I must inherit and carry forward the
glorious tradition of the successive Panchen Lamas to love the country
and love the religion,” he added.

In 10 years’ time, the boy has grown into a beloved religious leader who
enjoys high esteem among the Tibetan Buddhists.

When he first performed the Buddhist rituals in 1999 at the Zhaxi Lhunbo
Lamasery in the city of Xigaze, tens of thousands of worshippers swarmed
in from all parts of Tibet and the neighboring provinces, forming a
two-kilometer-long queue to seek his blessings through the head-touching
ritual.

The young Panchen Lama said that he owed his religious attainments to
his tutors, especially four masters of Buddhist sutras who taught him in
the past 10 years.

| “I was greatly saddened when two of them passed away,” he said.”I
shall never forget their teachings and study even harder to live up to
their expectations.”
| 
原文出处：\ `http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/2005-04/13/content\_2824469.htm <http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/2005-04/13/content_2824469.htm>`__

（完）

.. note::
    原文地址: http://www.ruanyifeng.com/blog/2005/04/post_116.html 
    作者: 阮一峰 

    编辑: 木书架 http://www.me115.com