.. _200512_post_163:

关于幸福，你知道多少？（下）
===============================================

`ruanyifeng.com <http://www.ruanyifeng.com/blog/2005/12/post_163.html>`__

5。职业妇女

One of the questions in the survey asked people if they suffered from
headaches, sleeplessness, worries, loneliness, etc.— since people who do
consider themselves less happy than those won don’t. Married women who
do not work are much more likely to have these kinds of symptoms,” the
book says. “Employed wives are less anxious and worried, and less likely
to feel worthless than housewives.”

这一段是讲一份充实的工作的重要性。

6。年龄和幸福

| Despite widespread belief that the middle years are the happiest, the
survey says this isn’t so. Nor does old age inevitably mean the onset of
unhappiness.
|  An intriguing sidelight of the survey is the discovery that people
become gradually less happy with the state of their health from age 20
to age 45, but then things level off. “From the age of 45 on, people do
not report any noticeable change in the extent to which health is a
problem or a source of unhappiness.”

As might be expected, major factors contributing to unhappiness in old
age are reduced income, loss of a spouse, and the boredom of retirement.
Yet, on the whole, “the reported happiness levels of people in the later
years, including a great many who have retired, is no lower than in any
other group.” In fact, older people are more likely to say that they are
very happy than any other age group in the survey.

这一段是说老年也不是那么糟糕。

7。收入和教育

A large part of the influence of money and education on happiness
derives from one’s original expectations. If you thought you’d earn a
lot, and did, you may have a “so what?” attitude. But if your
expectations have been overfulfilled, the happiness that comes from
getting more than you thought you would get can be quite pronounced.
“The happiness that comes from getting more than you thought you would
get can be quite pronounced. “The happiest groups were those with little
education who earned a lot; while the highly educated who earned a lot
were not so well off psychologically.”

幸福与期望有关，受过的教育越高，幸福的机会越小，不知道是不是这样？……

8。工作和幸福

| Satisfaction with your work is more important element of happiness
than anything except love and marriage, the survey makes clear. Ranking
various occupations by the happiness of the workers revealed that clerks
were at the bottom of the the range, secretaries and blue-collar workers
came next, the architects, college professors, nurses and managers. And
at the top of the contentment scale came clergymen, psychologists and
entertainers.
|  “One of the enigmas of this survey,” Freedman writes, “is that
lawyers and, even more so, doctors, rated themselves as relatively
unhappy.”

我知道做职员感觉很差，但没想到居然是最差。感觉最好的那几个职业，很出人意料呢。

9。童年和青春期

Although the key to happiness does not lie in one’s childhood
experiences, it does seem to be associated with a child’s relationship
with the same-sex parent and with childhood guilt — “two factors from
early life closely related to adult unhappiness.”

男孩与父亲的关系，女孩与母亲的关系，对他/她将来的幸福影响最大。就是说父亲对男孩更重要，母亲对女孩更重要？

10。结论：如何才能幸福：

**To love and be loved in return. To have enough money, but not
necessarily a great deal. To have meaning and direction in life, and a
sense of control over it. To have received more from life than you
expected.**

我觉得这段话说得太好了，真得堪称是幸福的秘诀。我把这篇文章打出来，其实就是想让大家看最后这段话。在这新年来临之际，把这段话送给大家，希望每个人（包括我）最终都能找到幸福。

`ruanyifeng.com <http://www.ruanyifeng.com/blog/2005/12/post_163.html>`__

Evernote

**

Highlight

Remove Highlight

.. note::
    原文地址: http://www.ruanyifeng.com/blog/2005/12/post_163.html 
    作者: 阮一峰 

    编辑: 木书架 http://www.me115.com