.. _200712_google_s_software_principles:

Google遵循的软件行为准则
===========================================

`ruanyifeng.com <http://www.ruanyifeng.com/blog/2007/12/google_s_software_principles.html>`__

昨天，我写了Google发现的\ `十条真理 <http://www.ruanyifeng.com/blog/2007/12/ten_things_google_has_found_to_be_true.html>`__\ ，其中第六条就是著名的”不干坏事，也能成功”（Don’t
be evil）。

那么，什么样的事情算是”坏事”呢？

Google在另一个\ `页面 <http://www.google.com/intl/en/corporate/software_principles.html>`__\ 写了六条软件准则（Software
Principles），可以看作是”Don’t be
evil”的一个注解。遵守这些准则的软件（网站），就是好的软件（网站），否则就是流氓软件（网站）。

不知道为什么，Google的中国分公司没有翻译这个页面。我觉得真是太不应该，中国可是世界著名的流氓软件大国啊！于是，我将这六条软件准则翻译了出来。


====================

**Google遵循的软件行为准则**

**1. 安装（INSTALLATION）**

We believe software should not trick you into installing it. It should
be clear to you when you are installing or enabling software on your
computer and you should have the ability to say no. An application
shouldn’t install itself onto your computer secretly or by hiding within
another program you’re installing or updating. You should be
conspicuously notified of the functions of all the applications in a
bundle.

我们相信软件不应该欺骗用户安装。当你在电脑上安装或打开软件时，这应该是你自己的决定，你有说不的能力。软件不应该自动地秘密安装，或者隐藏在其他软件中安装。当采用捆绑安装时，你应该被明示其中每一个软件的功能。

**2. 完全揭示（UPFRONT DISCLOSURE）**

When an application is installed or enabled, it should inform you of its
principal and significant functions. And if the application makes money
by showing you advertising, it should clearly and conspicuously explain
this. This information should be presented in a way that a typical user
will see and understand — not buried in small print that requires you to
scroll. For example, if the application is paid for by serving pop-up
ads or sending your personal data to a third party, that should be made
clear to you.

当一个软件安装或者打开时，它应该让你知道它的主要功能。如果软件中包含有盈利性的广告，它应该明白地向你解释这一点。这种信息的表达方式，应该是一个普通用户能够读懂的，而不是用小号字体，藏在一大堆文字的最下方。比如，某种软件带有广告弹出窗口或者将用户数据送往第三方，它应该事先将这些事情告诉用户。

**3. 方便的卸载（SIMPLE REMOVAL）**

It should be easy for you to figure out how to disable or delete an
application. The process should try to remove sufficient components to
disable all functions of the application, visible or not, without
messing up your computer. Once an application is disabled or deleted, it
should not remain active or be automatically enabled later by itself or
another application.

用户应该可以方便地关闭或者卸载软件。卸载过程应该充分地移除软件、使所有功能失效，不管这个过程是可见或不可见的，都不能搞乱用户的电脑。一旦软件被关闭或卸载，它就不应该再保持活动状态，或者稍后通过自身或者第三方软件又重新打开。

**4. 清晰的行为（CLEAR BEHAVIOR）**

Applications that affect or change your user experience should make
clear they are the reason for those changes. For example, if an
application opens a window, that window should identify the application
responsible for it. Applications should not intentionally obscure
themselves under multiple or confusing names. You should be given means
to control the application in a straightforward manner, such as by
clicking on visible elements generated by the application. If an
application shows you ads, it should clearly mark them as advertising
and inform you that they originate from that application. If an
application makes a change designed to affect the user experience of
other applications (such as setting your home page) then those changes
should be made clear to you.

如果某种软件会改变或影响用户使用电脑，它就应该让用户知道，它就是这种改变的原因。比如，如果某种软件打开一个窗口的话，那么这个窗口就应该明确显示是哪个软件应该对此负责。软件不应该有意地使用不同的名称或模糊的名称，隐藏自己。软件应该给出明确的手段让用户控制自己，比如点击软件自身提供的按钮。如果某种软件带有广告，它就应该标明这是广告，并且告诉用户广告来自该种软件。如果某种软件故意影响用户使用其他软件（比如修改默认首页），那么这种举动必须事先让用户知道。

**5. 嗅探（SNOOPING）**

If an application collects or transmits your personal information such
as your address, you should know. We believe you should be asked
explicitly for your permission in a manner that is obvious and clearly
states what information will be collected or transmitted. For more
detail, it should be easy to find a privacy policy that discloses how
the information will be used and whether it will be shared with third
parties.

如果某种软件收集或转移你的个人信息（比如地址），那么它必须让你知道。我们相信，它应该明确地说明哪些信息会被收集和转移，然后明确地要求你的允许。此外，还应该明确地包括一份详细的隐私政策说明，其中揭示了信息会被怎样使用，以及会不会与第三方分享。

**6. 不与坏公司为伍（KEEPING GOOD COMPANY）**

Application providers should not allow their products to be bundled with
applications that do not meet these guidelines.

软件提供者不应该允许它们的软件，与达不到上面要求的软件捆绑在一起。

Many internet users find that over time their computers become loaded
with unwanted software - be it adware, spyware or just plain junk. This
is because a few applications they installed came bundled with junk, and
that junk generated more junk piled higher and deeper. We believe any
situation where multiple applications are being installed should be made
very clear to users, so that if you were to ask them several months
later - “What’s this?” - most will know where it came from and why it is
there.

许多互联网用户发现，一段时间以后，他们的电脑中塞满了各种不想要的软件，其中有广告软件、间谍软件、或者纯粹的垃圾软件。这是因为某些他们安装的软件，捆绑了流氓软件，然后流氓软件又引来了更多的流氓软件。我们相信，任何多种软件捆绑安装的情况都应该向用户讲清楚，以便用户在几个月以后，依然记得某种软件是从哪里来的，以及它为什么会在那里。

Usually there are complex business relationships among the companies
participating in a bundle. This can result in well-intentioned companies
benefiting from the distribution or revenue generated by software that
does not benefit you. Getting paid to distribute, or paying money to be
distributed with undesirable software enables more undesirable software.
Responsible software makers and advertisers can work to prevent such
distribution by avoiding these types of business relationships, even if
they are through intermediaries.

通常，捆绑软件中的各个公司之间存在着复杂的商业关系。它使得那些有用的软件，可以通过捆绑那些对你没用的软件来获利。有责任感的软件制造商应该阻止这种行为，避免这种商业关系存在。


==================

除了上述的软件准则以外，Google还承诺，所有它的网站都不带有\ `跳出窗口 <http://www.google.com/intl/en/corporate/nopopupads.html>`__\ （pop-ups），不管是可见的还是不可见的。此外，Google还赞助了反流氓软件网站\ `StopBadware.org <http://stopbadware.org/>`__\ ，如果你遇到流氓软件，请向这家网站报告。

（完）

.. note::
    原文地址: http://www.ruanyifeng.com/blog/2007/12/google_s_software_principles.html 
    作者: 阮一峰 

    编辑: 木书架 http://www.me115.com