.. _200607_hamlet:

《哈姆莱特》（Hamlet）：摘录（第二部分）
===========================================================

`ruanyifeng.com <http://www.ruanyifeng.com/blog/2006/07/hamlet.html>`__

56.

**一个躁急的性格不免会有时发作，一个血气方刚的少年的一时胡闹。**

| [原文] The flash and outbreak of a fiery mind,
|  A savageness in unreclaimed blood.（II.1）

57.

**好像他刚从地狱里逃出来，要向人讲述地狱的恐怖一样。**

| [原文] As if he had been loosed out of hell
|  To speak of horrors.（II.1）

58.

**他发出一声非常惨痛而深长的叹息，好像他的整个的胸部都要爆裂，他的生命就在这一声叹息中间完毕似的。**

| [原文] He raised a sigh so piteous and profound
|  As it did seem to shatter all his bulk
|  And end his being.（II.1）

59.

**正像年轻人干起事来，往往不知道瞻前顾后一样，我们这种上了年纪的人，总是免不了鳃鳃过虑。来，我们见王上去。**

| [原文] it is as proper to our age To cast beyond ourselves in our
opinions
|  As it is common for the younger sort
|  To lack discretion.（II.1）

60.

**简洁是智慧的灵魂。**

[原文] brevity is the soul of wit.（II.2）

61.

**多谈些实际，少弄些玄虚。**

[原文] More matter, with less art.（II.2）

62.

**你可以疑心星星是火把； 你可以疑心太阳会移转；
 你可以疑心真理是谎话；
 可是我的爱永没有改变。**

| [原文] Doubt thou the stars are fire; Doubt that the sun doth move;
|  Doubt truth to be a liar;
|  But never doubt I love.（II.2）

63.

**我不会用诗句来抒写我的愁怀.**

[原文] I have not art to reckon my groans.（II.2）

64.

**在这世上，一万个人中间只不过有一个老实人。**

| [原文] to be honest, as this world goes, is to be
|  one man picked out of ten thousand.（II.2）

65.

**肚子里有学问是幸福，但不是像你女儿肚子里会有的那种学问。**

[原文] conception is a blessing: but not as your daughter may conceive.
（II.2）

66.

**—您在读些什么，殿下？
 　
 —都是些空话，空话，空话。**

[原文] What do you read, my lord?

Words, words, words.（II.2）

67.

**这些虽然是疯话，却有深意在内。**

[原文] Though this be madness, yet there is method in ‘t. （II.2）

68.

| 哈姆莱特 　
我的好朋友们！你好，吉尔登斯吞？啊，罗森格兰兹！好孩子们，你们两人都好？
　 罗森格兰兹 　 不过像一般庸庸碌碌之辈，在这世上虚度时光而已。 　
吉尔登斯吞 　 无荣无辱便是我们的幸福；我们高不到命运女神帽子上的钮扣。
　 哈姆莱特 　 也低不到她的鞋底吗？ 　 罗森格兰兹 　 正是，殿下。 　
哈姆莱特 　 那么你们是在她的腰上，或是在她的怀抱之中吗？ 　 吉尔登斯 　
说老实话，我们是在她的私处。 　 哈姆莱特
|  　
|  在命运身上秘密的那部分吗？啊，对了；她本来是一个娼妓。

[原文] HAMLET

| My excellent good friends! How dost thou,
|  Guildenstern? Ah, Rosencrantz! Good lads, how do ye both?

ROSENCRANTZ

As the indifferent children of the earth.

GUILDENSTERN

| Happy, in that we are not over-happy;
|  On fortune’s cap we are not the very button.

HAMLET

Nor the soles of her shoe?

ROSENCRANTZ

Neither, my lord.

HAMLET

| Then you live about her waist, or in the middle of
|  her favours?

GUILDENSTERN

‘Faith, her privates we.

HAMLET

| In the secret parts of fortune? O, most true; she
|  is a strumpet. （II.2）

69.

**世界是一所很大的牢狱，里面有许多监房、囚室、地牢；丹麦是其中最坏的一间。**

| [原文] The world is a goodly prison; in which there are many confines,
|  wards and dungeons, Denmark being one o’ the worst.（II.2）

70.

**世上的事情本来没有善恶，都是各人的思想把它们分别出来的。**

[原文] there is nothing either good or bad, but thinking makes it
so.（II.2）

71.

**即使把我关在一个果壳里，我也会把自己当作一个拥有着无限空间的君王的。**

| [原文] I could be bounded in a nut shell and count
|  myself a king of infinite space.（II.2）

72.

**一个梦的本身便是一个影子。**

[原文] A dream itself is but a shadow.（II.2）

73.

**像我这样一个叫化子，我的感谢也是不值钱的.**

[原文] Beggar that I am, I am even poor in thanks.（II.2）

74.

**你们掩饰不了你们良心上的惭愧，已经从你们的脸色上招认出来了。**

| [原文] there is a kind of confession in your looks
|  which your modesties have not craft enough to colour.（II.2）

75.

**这个金黄色的火球点缀着的庄严的屋宇，只是一大堆污浊的瘴气的集合。**

| [原文] this majestical roof fretted
|  with golden fire, why, it appears no other thing to
|  me than a foul and pestilent congregation of vapours.（II.2）

76.

**人类不能使我发生兴趣；不，女人也不能使我发生兴趣.**

[原文] man delights not me; no, nor woman neither. （II.2）

77.

**情人的叹息不会没有酬报.**

[原文] the lover shall not sigh gratis.（II.2）

78.

**这些娃娃们的嘶叫博得了台下疯狂的喝采，他们是目前流行的宠儿.**

| [原文] there is, sir, an aery of children, little eyases,
|  that cry out on the top of question, and are most
|  tyrannically clapped for’t: these are now the fashion.（II.2）

79.

**这里面有些不是常理可解的地方。**

[原文] there is something in this more than natural.（II.2）

80.

**欢迎总要讲究这些礼节、俗套.**

[原文] the appurtenance of welcome is fashion and ceremony.（II.2）

81.

**一个老年人是第二次做婴孩。**

[原文] an old man is twice a child.（II.2）

82.

**兼有刚健与柔和之美，壮丽而不流于纤巧。**

[原文] as wholesome as sweet, and by very much more handsome than
fine.（II.2）

83.

**他们是这一个时代的缩影.**

[原文] they are the abstract and brief chronicles of the time. （II.2）

84.

**宁可在死后得到一首恶劣的墓铭，不要在生前受他们一场刻毒的讥讽。**

| [原文] after your death you were better have a bad
|  epitaph than their ill report while you live.（II.2）

85.

**要是照每一个人应得的名分对待他，那么谁逃得了一顿鞭子？**

[原文] use every man after his desert, and who should ‘scape
whipping?（II.2）

86.

**魔鬼是有这一种本领的；对于柔弱忧郁的灵魂，他最容易发挥他的力量；也许他看准了我的柔弱和忧郁，才来向我作祟，要把我引诱到沉沦的路上。**

[原文] The devil Abuses me to damn me, perhaps Out of my weakness and my
melancholy,As he is very potent with such spirits,（II.2）

87.

**他很吝惜自己的话，可是我们问他话的时候，他回答起来却是毫无拘束。**

| [原文] Niggard of question; but, of our demands,
|  Most free in his reply.（III.1）

88.

**人们往往用至诚的外表和虔敬的行动，掩饰一颗魔鬼般的内心，这样的例子是太多了。**

| [原文] ‘Tis too much proved—that with devotion’s visage
|  And pious action we do sugar o’er
|  The devil himself.（III.1）

89.

**它在我的良心上抽了多么重的一鞭！**

[原文] How smart a lash that speech doth give my conscience!（III.1）

90.

生存还是毁灭，这是一个值得考虑的问题；默然忍受命运的暴虐的毒箭，或是挺身反抗人世的无涯的苦难，通过斗争把它们扫清，这两种行为，哪一种更高贵？死了；睡着了；什么都完了；要是在这一种睡眠之中，我们心头的创痛，以及其他无数血肉之躯所不能避免的打击，都可以从此消失，那正是我们求之不得的结局。死了；睡着了；睡着了也许还会做梦；嗯，阻碍就在这儿：因为当我们摆脱了这一具朽腐的皮囊以后，在那死的睡眠里，究竟将要做些什么梦，那不能不使我们踌躇顾虑。人们甘心久困于患难之中，也就是为了这个缘故；谁愿意忍受人世的鞭挞和讥嘲、压迫者的凌辱、傲慢者的冷眼、被轻蔑的爱情的惨痛、法律的迁延、官吏的横暴和费尽辛勤所换来的小人的鄙视，要是他只要用一柄小小的刀子，就可以清算他自己的一生？谁愿意负着这样的重担，在烦劳的生命的压迫下呻吟流汗，倘不是因为惧怕不可知的死后，惧怕那从来不曾有一个旅人回来过的神秘之国，是它迷惑了我们的意志，使我们宁愿忍受目前的磨折，不敢向我们所不知道的痛苦飞去？这样，重重的顾虑使我们全变成了懦夫，决心的赤热的光彩，被审慎的思维盖上了一层灰色，伟大的事业在这一种考虑之下，也会逆流而退，失去了行动的意义。

| [原文] To be, or not to be: that is the question: Whether ‘tis nobler
in the mind to suffer The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune, Or to
take arms against a sea of troubles, And by opposing end them? To die:
to sleep; No more; and by a sleep to say we end The heart-ache and the
thousand natural shocks That flesh is heir to, ‘tis a consummation
Devoutly to be wish’d. To die, to sleep; To sleep: perchance to dream:
ay, there’s the rub; For in that sleep of death what dreams may come
When we have shuffled off this mortal coil, Must give us pause: there’s
the respect That makes calamity of so long life; For who would bear the
whips and scorns of time, The oppressor’s wrong, the proud man’s
contumely, The pangs of despised love, the law’s delay, The insolence of
office and the spurns That patient merit of the unworthy takes, When he
himself might his quietus make With a bare bodkin? who would fardels
bear, To grunt and sweat under a weary life, But that the dread of
something after death, The undiscover’d country from whose bourn No
traveller returns, puzzles the will And makes us rather bear those ills
we have Than fly to others that we know not of? Thus conscience does
make cowards of us all; And thus the native hue of resolution Is
sicklied o’er with the pale cast of thought, And enterprises of great
pith and moment
|  With this regard their currents turn awry,
|  And lose the name of action.（III.1）

91.

**在有骨气的人看来，送礼的人要是变了心，礼物虽贵，也会失去了价值。**

| [原文] for to the noble mind
|  Rich gifts wax poor when givers prove unkind.（III.1）

92.

| **—我的确曾经爱过你。
 —真的，您曾经使我相信您爱我。** 　
|  [原文] — I did love you once.
|  — Indeed, you made me believe so.（III.1）

93.

**我也知道你们会怎样涂脂抹粉；上帝给了你们一张脸，你们又替自己另外造了一张。**

| [原文] I have heard of your paintings too, well enough; God
|  has given you one face, and you make yourselves another.（III.1）

94.

**卖弄你们不懂事的风骚。**

[原文] make your wantonness your ignorance.（III.1）

95.

**一颗多么高贵的心是这样殒落了！**

[原文] what a noble mind is here o’erthrown!（III.1）

96.

**啊！我好苦，谁料过去的繁华，变作今朝的泥土！**

| [原文] O, woe is me,
|  To have seen what I have seen, see what I see!（III.1）

97.

**他有些什么心事盘踞在他的灵魂里.**

[原文] There’s something in his soul,O’er which his melancholy sits on
brood;（III.1）

98.

**大人物的疯狂是不能听其自然的。**

[原文] Madness in great ones must not unwatch’d go.（III.1）

（未完待续）

`ruanyifeng.com <http://www.ruanyifeng.com/blog/2006/07/hamlet.html>`__

Evernote

**

Highlight

Remove Highlight

.. note::
    原文地址: http://www.ruanyifeng.com/blog/2006/07/hamlet.html 
    作者: 阮一峰 

    编辑: 木书架 http://www.me115.com