.. _200607_hamlet_1:

《哈姆莱特》（Hamlet）：摘录（第一部分）
===========================================================

`ruanyifeng.com <http://www.ruanyifeng.com/blog/2006/07/hamlet_1.html>`__

《哈姆莱特》是莎士比亚最有名的作品，也是被引用最多的作品。《哈姆莱特》中的一些台词，已经成为了英语不可分割的一部分。下面就是我摘录的其中一些很出名或我非常喜欢的台词。

译文采用朱生豪的译本。原文后面括号中的罗马数字表示第几场，阿拉伯数字表示第几幕。比如，I.2表示第一场第二幕。


==================

1.

**大概推测起来，这恐怕预兆着我们国内将要有一番非常的变故。**

[原文] In the gross and scope of my opinion, This bodes some strange
eruption to our state.(I.1)

2.

**这样夜以继日地辛苦忙碌，究竟为了什么？**

[原文] What might be toward, that this sweaty haste Doth make the night
joint-labourer with the day.(I.1)

3.

**那是扰乱我们心灵之眼的一点微尘。**

[原文] A mote it is to trouble the mind’s eye.(I.1)

4.

**夜间的空气非常清净，没有一颗星用毒光射人。**

[原文] The nights are wholesome; then no planets strike.(I.1)

5.

**让幸福和忧郁分据了我的两眼，殡葬的挽歌和结婚的笙乐同时并奏.**

[原文] With an auspicious and a dropping eye，With mirth in funeral and
with dirge in marriage.(I.2)

6.

**超乎寻常的亲族，漠不相干的路人。**

[原文] A little more than kin, and less than
kind.(I.2)（意为虽然有非常近的血缘关系，但是感情上还不及路人。）

7.

**活着的人谁都要死去，从生活踏进永久的宁静。**

[原文] All that lives must die, Passing through nature to eternity.(I.2)

| 8.
|  　
| **既然是很普通的事，那么你为什么瞧上去好像老是这样郁郁于心呢？**

[原文] If it be common, Why seems it so particular with thee?(I.2)

9.

**好像，母亲！不，是这样就是这样，我不知道什么”好像”不”好像”。**

[原文] Seems, madam! nay it is; I know not ‘seems.’(I.2)

10.

**不要让你母亲的祈求全归无用.**

[原文] Let not thy mother lose her prayers。(I.2)

11.

啊，但愿这一个太坚实的肉体会融解、消散，化成一堆露水！或者那永生的真神未曾制定禁止白杀的律法！上帝啊！上帝啊！人世间的一切在我看来是多么可厌、陈腐、乏味而无聊！哼！哼！那是一个荒芜不冶的花园，长满了恶毒的莠草。想不到居然会有这种事情！刚死了两个月！不，两个月还不满！这样好的一个国王，比起当前这个来，简直是天神和丑怪；这样爱我的母亲，甚至于不愿让天风吹痛了她的脸。天地呀！我必须记着吗？嘿，她会偎倚在他的身旁，好像吃了美味的食物，格外促进了食欲一般；可是，只有一个月的时间，我不能再想下去了！脆弱啊，你的名字就是女人！短短的一个月以前，她哭得像个泪人儿似的，送我那可怜的父亲下葬；她在送葬的时候所穿的那双鞋子还没有破旧，她就，她就—上帝啊！一头没有理性的畜生也要悲伤得长久一些—她就嫁给我的叔父，我的父亲的弟弟，可是他一点不像我的父亲，正像我一点不像赫剌克勒斯一样。只有一个月的时间，她那流着虚伪之泪的眼睛还没有消去红肿，她就嫁了人了。啊，罪恶的匆促，这样迫不及待地钻进了乱伦的衾被！那不是好事，也不会有好结果；可是碎了吧，我的心，因为我必须噤住我的嘴！

[原文]

| O, that this too too solid flesh would melt Thaw and resolve itself
into a dew! Or that the Everlasting had not fix’d His canon ‘gainst
self-slaughter! O God! God! How weary, stale, flat and unprofitable,
Seem to me all the uses of this world! Fie on’t! ah fie! ‘tis an
unweeded garden, That grows to seed; things rank and gross in nature
Possess it merely. That it should come to this! But two months dead:
nay, not so much, not two: So excellent a king; that was, to this,
Hyperion to a satyr; so loving to my mother That he might not beteem the
winds of heaven Visit her face too roughly. Heaven and earth! Must I
remember? why, she would hang on him, As if increase of appetite had
grown By what it fed on: and yet, within a month— Let me not think
on’t—Frailty, thy name is woman!— A little month, or ere those shoes
were old With which she follow’d my poor father’s body, Like Niobe, all
tears:—why she, even she— O, God! a beast, that wants discourse of
reason, Would have mourn’d longer—married with my uncle, My father’s
brother, but no more like my father Than I to Hercules: within a month:
Ere yet the salt of most unrighteous tears Had left the flushing in her
galled eyes, She married. O, most wicked speed, to post With such
dexterity to incestuous sheets!
|  It is not nor it cannot come to good:
|  But break, my heart; for I must hold my tongue.(I.2)

12.

**脆弱啊，你的名字就是女人！**

[原文] Frailty, thy name is woman!(I.2)

13.

**无非是偷闲躲懒罢了.**

[原文] A truant disposition.(I.2)

14.

**这是一举两便的办法，霍拉旭！葬礼中剩下来的残羹冷炙，正好宴请婚筵上的宾客。**

| [原文] Thrift, thrift, Horatio! the funeral baked meats
|  Did coldly furnish forth the marriage tables.(I.2)

15.

**他是一个堂堂男子；整个说起来，我再也见不到像他那样的人了。**

| [原文] He was a man, take him for all in all,
|  I shall not look upon his like again.(I.2)

16.

**悲哀多于愤怒。**

[原文] more in sorrow than in anger. (I.2)

17.

**罪恶的行为总有一天会发现，虽然地上所有的泥土把它们遮掩。**

[原文] Foul deeds will rise,Though all the earth o’erwhelm them, to
men’s eyes.(I.2)

18.

**在好风给人方便、船只来往无阻的时候，不要贪睡.**

| [原文] as the winds give benefit
|  And convoy is assistant, do not sleep.(I.3)

19.

**一朵初春的紫罗兰早熟而易凋，馥郁而不能持久，一分钟的芬芳和喜悦，如此而已。**

| [原文] A violet in the youth of primy nature,
|  Forward, not permanent, sweet, not lasting,
|  The perfume and suppliance of a minute; No more.(I.3)

20.

**不要放纵你的爱情，不要让欲望的利箭把你射中。**

| [原文] And keep you in the rear of your affection,
|  Out of the shot and danger of desire.(I.3)

21.

**朝露一样晶莹的青春，常常会受到罡风的吹打。**

| [原文] in the morn and liquid dew of youth
|  Contagious blastments are most imminent.(I.3)

22.

**戒惧是最安全的方策。**

[原文] best safety lies in fear.(I.3)

23.

**即使没有旁人的诱惑，少年的血气也要向他自己叛变。**

[原文] Youth to itself rebels, though none else near.(I.3)

24.

**指点我上天去的险峻的荆棘之途.**

[原文] Show me the steep and thorny way to heaven.(I.3)

25.

**不要想到什么就说什么.**

[原文] Give thy thoughts no tongue.(I.3)

26.

**对人要和气，可是不要过分狎昵。相知有素的朋友，应该用钢圈箍在你的灵魂上.**

| [原文] Be thou familiar, but by no means vulgar.
|  Those friends thou hast, and their adoption tried,
|  Grapple them to thy soul with hoops of steel;(I.3)

27.

**留心避免和人家争吵；可是万一争端已起，就应该让对方知道你不是可以轻侮的。**

| [原文] Beware Of entrance to a quarrel, but being in,
|  Bear’t that the opposed may beware of thee.(I.3)

28.

**倾听每一个人的意见，可是只对极少数人发表你的意见；接受每一个人的批评，可是保留你自己的判断。**

| [原文] Give every man thy ear, but few thy voice;
|  Take each man’s censure, but reserve thy judgment.(I.3)

29.

**不要向人告贷，也不要借钱给人；因为债款放了出去，往往不但丢了本钱，而且还失去了朋友；向人告贷的结果，容易养成因循懒惰的习惯。**

| [原文] Neither a borrower nor a lender be;
|  For loan oft loses both itself and friend,
|  And borrowing dulls the edge of husbandry.(I.3)

30.

**尤其要紧的，你必须对你自己忠实.**

[原文] This above all: to thine ownself be true.(I.3)

31.

**你的话已经锁在我的记忆里，那钥匙你替我保管着吧。**

| [原文] ‘Tis in my memory lock’d,
|  And you yourself shall keep the key of it.(I.3)

32.

**你是一个毛孩子，竟然把这些假意的表示当作了真心的奉献。**

| [原文] think yourself a baby;
|  That you have ta’en these tenders for true pay,
|  Which are not sterling. (I.3)

33.

**我知道在热情燃烧的时候，一个人无论什么盟誓都会说出口来.**

| [原文] When the blood burns, how prodigal the soul
|  Lends the tongue vows.(I.3)

34.

**这些火焰，女儿，是光多于热的，刚刚说出口就会光销焰灭，你不能把它们当作真火看待。**

| [原文] these blazes, daughter, Giving more light than heat, extinct in
both,
|  Even in their promise, as it is a-making,
|  You must not take for fire. (I.3)

35.

**我虽然从小就熟习这种风俗，我却以为把它破坏了倒比遵守它还体面些。**

| [原文] though I am native here
|  And to the manner born, it is a custom
|  More honour’d in the breach than the observance.(I.4)

36.

**天性不能由自己选择.**

[原文] nature cannot choose his origin.(I.4)

37.

**不要让我在无知的蒙昧里抱恨终天.**

[原文] Let me not burst in ignorance.(I.4)

38.

**我把我的生命看得不值一枚针.**

[原文] I do not set my life in a pin’s fee.(I.4)

39.

**我的运命在高声呼喊，使我全身每一根微细的血管都变得像怒狮的筋骨一样坚硬。**

| [原文] My fate cries out,
|  And makes each petty artery in this body
|  As hardy as the Nemean lion’s nerve.(I.4)

40.

**幻想占据了他的头脑，使他不顾一切。**

[原文] He waxes desperate with imagination.(I.4)

41.

**丹麦国里恐怕有些不可告人的坏事。**

[原文] Something is rotten in the state of Denmark.(I.4)

42.

**上帝的旨意支配一切。**

[原文] Heaven will direct it.(I.4)

43.

**不要可怜我，你只要留心听着我要告诉你的话。**

| [原文] Pity me not, but lend thy serious hearing
|  To what I shall unfold.(I.5)

44.

**这一种永恒的神秘，是不能向血肉的凡耳宣示的.**

| [原文] this eternal blazon must not be
|  To ears of flesh and blood. (I.5)

45.

**让我驾着像思想和爱情一样迅速的翅膀.**

| [原文] with wings as swift
|  As meditation or the thoughts of love.(I.5)

46.

**那毒害你父亲的蛇，现在头上正戴着王冠呢。**

| [原文] The serpent that did sting thy father’s life
|  Now wears his crown.(I.5)

47.

**我的爱情是那样纯洁真诚，始终信守着我在结婚的时候对她所作的盟誓.**

| [原文] From me, whose love was of that dignity
|  That it went hand in hand even with the vow
|  I made to her in marriage.(I.5)

48.

**要是你有天性之情，不要默尔而息，不要让丹麦的御寝变成了藏奸养逆的卧榻.**

| [原文] If thou hast nature in thee, bear it not;
|  Let not the royal bed of Denmark be
|  A couch for luxury and damned incest.(I.5)

49.

**她自会受到上天的裁判，和她自己内心中的荆棘的刺戳。**

| [原文] leave her to heaven
|  And to those thorns that in her bosom lodge,
|  To prick and sting her.(I.5)

50.

**忍着吧，忍着吧，我的心！**

[原文] Hold, hold, my heart;(I.5)

51.

**当记忆不曾从我这混乱的头脑里消失的时候，我会记着你的。**

| [原文] while memory holds a seat
|  In this distracted globe. Remember thee!(I.5)

52.

**一个人可以尽管满面都是笑，骨子里却是杀人的奸贼；至少我相信在丹麦是这样的。**

| [原文] That one may smile, and smile, and be a villain;
|  At least I’m sure it may be so in Denmark:(I.5)

53.

**各人都有各人的意思和各人的事，这是实际情况.**

| [原文] For every man has business and desire,
|  Such as it is;(I.5)

54.

**霍拉旭，天地之间有许多事情，是你们的哲学里所没有梦想到的呢。**

| [原文] There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio,
|  Than are dreamt of in your philosophy. (I.5)

55.

**这是一个颠倒混乱的时代，唉，倒楣的我却要负起重整乾坤的责任！**

| [原文] The time is out of joint: O cursed spite,
|  That ever I was born to set it right!(I.5)

（未完待续）

`ruanyifeng.com <http://www.ruanyifeng.com/blog/2006/07/hamlet_1.html>`__

Evernote

**

Highlight

Remove Highlight

.. note::
    原文地址: http://www.ruanyifeng.com/blog/2006/07/hamlet_1.html 
    作者: 阮一峰 

    编辑: 木书架 http://www.me115.com