.. _200605_post_216:

吴宓《文学与人生》课程阅读书单
=================================================

`ruanyifeng.com <http://www.ruanyifeng.com/blog/2006/05/post_216.html>`__

下面的书单收录于《文学与人生》一书。那本书是吴宓30年代在清华大学的课程提纲。这份书单是我很多年前的一个暑假，一个字符一个字符输入电脑的。我以为找不到了，今天发现它还在。我把它贴出来，希望有助于大家读书。


=========================

课程说明

**LITERATURE AND LIFE**

Professor Mi Wu

| 
|  Whole-Year Course :Two hours per week; 4 Credits.

Open to Juniors, Seniors. & Graduates, of all Departments.

This Course is a study of the essence of life and of Literature, and the
relation between them, in the two main aspects of Poetry and Philosophy.
The discussion would also include certain problems of politics,
morality, art, and religion.

Students shall read intensively certain selected and prescribed
masterpieces of poetry and prose, of philosophy and literary criticism,
as the basis of discussion in class, in which they are expected to join.

In addition, each student should read a list of books especially planned
by the teacher for his individual purpose and interest, with a view to
writing a thesis (for the academic year) setting forth his own
conclusions and findings in literary study and life experience.


===========================

课程的目的和目标

**Aim & Purpose of “Literature & Life”**

1. To give to the Students the Best of Myself——

—— of what I have read and heard;

of what I have thought and felt;

of my own Experience of Life, both direct and indirect.

2. To make the Students express themselves freely and happily in
intimate and familiar Discussion-in-class.

3. To make the Students read certain fundamental good books which should
be read by every good and intelligent man and woman.

i. Suggested (full) List of Books.

ii. Prescribed (selected) List of Books.

4. To present pictures and accounts and criticisms and lessons of life,
in the past - in the various periods of history (both in the East and
West), in different walks of life, and by men of different temperament
and character and social status.

5. To acquire, through practice and experiment, a method of Literary
study and Expression.

Method of study: Suggestions to Students——

1. Read the Books independently but constantly.

2. No Note-taking ; Copy down the Outlines only.

3. Ask questions on Oral and Written form.

4. Answers to Exercises and Problems must be carefully thought out. but
concisely expressed.


======================

**《文学与人生》课程应读书目**

| 
|  （1937—1938）吴宓编选

四书（论语，孟子，大学，中庸）

毛诗（国风）

礼记（礼运，学记，乐记，儒行）

春秋左记（长篇纪事）

史记（项羽本纪，孔子世家，伯夷列传，屈原贾生列传，刺客列传，李广列传，公孙弘

列传，游侠列传，滑稽列传，货殖列传）

前汉书（艺文志，张耳陈余列传，窦田灌韩列传，司马迁传，佞幸传，外戚列传）

后汉书（党锢传，郭符许列传，独行传，逸民传，列女传）

资治通鉴

柳诒徵：中国文化史

冯友兰：中国哲学史

楚辞王逸注（屈原：离骚，九歌，天问，九章，远游，卜居，渔父）

古诗源

十八家诗钞

杜诗镜铨

吴梅村诗集

顾亭林诗集

黄节：蒹葭楼诗

吴芳吉：吴白屋先生遗书

吴宓诗集

艺蘅馆词选

桃花扇传奇

长生殿传奇

世说新语

汪国垣编：唐人小说

张潮辑：虞初新志

水浒传

石头记（红楼梦）

刘宗周：人谱

陈宏谋辑：五种遗规

吴宓编：Outlines of the History of Greek Literature

Dialogues of Plato——Translated by Jowett, Vol. I, II, III

柏拉图五大对话集——郭斌和景昌极合译（商务印书馆发行）

The Republic of Plato——Translated by Lindsay ( Everyman’s Library)

柏拉图之理想国——吴献书译（商务印书馆发行）二册

Nicomachean Ethics of Aristotle——Translated by Welldon ( Macmillan) or
by Chase

( Everyman’s Library)

亚里士多德伦理学——向达译（商务印书馆发行）

Aristotle’s Politics——Translated by Jowett (Oxford)

Aristotle’s Politics——Translated by Welldon ( Macmillan)

Butcher: Aristotle’s Theory of Poetry and Fine Art

亚里士多德诗学——傅东华译（商务印书馆发行）

Stace: Critical History of Greek Philosophy

批评的希腊哲学史——庆泽彭译

A.E. Taylor: Socrates

Paul E. More: Platonism

Paul E. More: Religion of Plato

Wallace: Outline s of the Philosophy of Aristotle

A. E. Taylor: Aristotle

B. de Wulf: Philosophy and Civilization in the Middle Ages

中古文化与士林哲学——赵尔谦译述（传信书局发行）

Hoernle: Studies in Contemporary Metaphysics

Hoernle: Matter, Life. Mind, and God

Hoernle: Idealism as a Philosophical Doctrine

冯友兰: A comparative Study of Life Ideals

冯友兰: 人生哲学（商务印书馆新学制高中教科书）

景幼南：哲学新论（南京书店）

许思园：On the Nature and Destiny of Man

景昌极：道德哲学新论（钟山书局）

黎锦熙编：佛教十宗概要

黎锦熙编：宋元明思想学术文选

Sacred Books of the East —— Vol. XI (Buddhist Sutras)

频迦精舍校刊大藏经，昃十卷

大正新修大藏经，第一卷

Holy Bible

新旧约全书（中文文言译本）

A. E. Zucker : Western Literature —— Vol. II : Bible & Middle Ages
(圣经及中古文选——商务

印书馆发行)

赵紫宸著：耶稣传

Paul E. More : Christ of the New Testament

Thoughts or Meditations of Marcus Aurelius; Discourses of Epictetus
(合订一册)

Essays of Montaigne (World Classics英译本2 vols.)

Bacon’s Essay (Bohn’s library)

Pascal “Pensees” 英译本（Everyman’s library）

La Bruyere “Caracteres”

La Rochefoucauld “Maximes”

Burke : Reflections on the Revolution in France, etc.(Everyman’s
library）

Joubert “Pensees”

Stendhal “De l’Amour:

Sainte-Beuve’s “Causeries du Lundi “——English translation by E.J.
Trechmann. 7 vols.

(Routledge)

Sainte-Beuve’s Portraits of the 17th Century——English translation (2
vols. in I )

Matthew Arnold : Essays (Everyman’s library）

Paul E. More: Shelburne Essays——Vol. I-XI

Babbitt: Literature and the American College

Babbitt: The New Laokoon

Babbitt: Masters of Modern French Criticism

Babbitt: Rousseau and Romanticism

Babbitt: Democracy and Leadership

吴宓等译；白璧德与人文主义（新月书店）

Stuart P. Sherman: On Contemporary Literature

Century Reading in English Literature

Oxford Book of English Verse

C. H. Page: British Poets of the 19th Century

The Works of William Shakespeare (全一册)

Shakespeare’s Hamlet (edited by G.P. Baker)

邵挺译：天仇记（商务印书馆，小本小说）

田汉译：哈孟雷特

梁实秋译：汉姆来德

Moliere’s Comedies——English translation (Everyman’s library）2 vols.

赵少侯译：恨世者（正中书局）

Castiglione’s Book of the Courtier (Libro del Coregiano),in English
translation (Everyman’s

library）.

Chesterfield’s letters to his son (1774)—— (Everyman’s library）

Boswell: Life of Dr. Johnson (1791)—— (Everyman’s library）2 vols.

the Confessions of Rousseau英译本

张竞生译：卢梭忏悔录（节本）

Newman : Apologia pro Vita Sua ( 1864 )—— (Everyman’s library）

梁济：桂林梁先生遗书

熊十力：尊闻录

徐志摩：爱眉小扎

朱湘：海外寄霓君

钱基博：现代中国文学史（世界书局1936年增订本）

林语堂：My Country and My People

The Arabian Nights

奚若译：天方夜谈（商务印书馆说部丛书初集五十四编）四册

Cervantes: Don Quixote英译本（Modern Library一册全）

林纾陈家麟译：魔侠传（商务印书馆万有文库）

蒋瑞青译：吉诃德先生（世界书局世界少年文库本）

Bunyan : Pilgrim’s Progress (Everyman’s Library)

译者名佚：天路历程

Swift : Gulliver’s Travels ( 1726)—— (Everyman’s Library)

林纾译：海外轩渠录（商务印书馆说部丛书）

韦丛芜译：格里佛游记（未名社）

Voltaire’s Tales英译本（Bohn’s library）

陈汝衡译（吴宓校注）：福禄特尔小说集（商务印书馆世界文学名著）

徐志摩译：赣第德（Candide）

Fielding : Joseph Andrews (1742)—— (Everyman’s Library)

Fielding : Tom Jones (1749)—— (Everyman’s Library 2 vols.)

Fielding : Amelia (1751)—— (Everyman’s Library 2 vols.)

Goldsmith: Vicar of Wakefield (1776)—— (Everyman’s Library)

商务印书馆编译所译述：双鸯侣（商务印书馆说部丛书）

伍光建译：维克斐牧师传（商务印书馆 1935）

Jane Austen: Pride and Prejudice (1813)

杨缤译：傲慢与偏见（商务印书馆，二册）

Thackeray: Vanity Fair (1847—48) —— (Everyman’s Library)

伍光建译：浮华世界（Max J. Hergbrig节本）

Thackeray: Pendennis (1849-50)

Thackeray: English Humourists (1851, 1853) —— (Everyman’s Library)

Thackeray: Henry Esmond (1852)

Thackeray: The Newcomes (1854—55)

George Eliot : Middlemarch (1871—1872) —— (Everyman’s Library 2 vols.)

George Eliot : Richard Feverel (1859) —— (Everyman’s Library)

Flaubert: Madame Bovary (1857) —— (Everyman’s Library)

李青崖译：波华荔夫人传（商务印书馆）

Tolstoy: Anna Karenina (1875—1877) —— (Everyman’s Library 2 vols.)

陈家麟陈大镫译：珂娜小传（中华书局）

Thomas Hardy: Tess of the D’Urbervilles (1891)

吕天石译：苔丝姑娘（中华书局）

张谷若译：德伯家的苔丝（商务印书馆 1936）

Arnold Bennett : Old Wives’ Tales (1908) —— (Everyman’s Library)

王友竹译：老妇谭

Sinclair Lewis : Main Street (1920)

杨历樵（白华）译：大街（二册，大公报）

潘式（凫公）：人海微澜（二册）

| 潘式（凫公）：隐刑

`ruanyifeng.com <http://www.ruanyifeng.com/blog/2006/05/post_216.html>`__

Evernote

**

Highlight

Remove Highlight

.. note::
    原文地址: http://www.ruanyifeng.com/blog/2006/05/post_216.html 
    作者: 阮一峰 

    编辑: 木书架 http://www.me115.com